.\" Manpage for tcpdumpd.
.\" Contact emcekah@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "18 May 2013" "0.2" "tcpdumpd man page"
.SH NAME
tcpdumpd \- run tcpdump in background with multiple configurations.

.SH SYNOPSIS
tcpdumpd [COMMAND] <PARAMETERS>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Logs network packets to rotating file ring while silently running in the background. Command line utility and 'daemon' wrapper for tcpdump. Supports multiple configurations and instances. 

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "[COMMANDS]"
.IP start
Starts the daemon process.

.IP stop
Stops the daemon process.

.IP status [pidfile]
Checks for running tcpdumpd processes. Accepts a single pidfile (absolute path or job name, see '-j', -p, -r) to check it's status.

.IP setup
Recall install script to change general program options.

.SS "<PARAMETERS>"
.IP "-c, --configpath /path/to/config.file"
Absolute path and filename for custom config file.

.IP "-r, --ringfile filename.file"
Base name (suffix) for a new ringfile. Existing files will be overwritten.

.IP "-p, --pidfile /path/to/pidfile.file"
Absolute path and name of PID file for the new instance.

.IP "-n, --numberofringfiles int"
How many ringfiles to create.

.IP "-s, --size int"
Size of each ringfile in millions of bytes. Integer.

.IP "-f, --filter 'quoted expression'"
Additional custom filter or options for tcpdump. Must be a quoted string. See  man 
.B  "pcap-savefile (5)".

.IP "-v, --verbosity 'tcpdump_verbosity_param'"
Toggle verbosity. Must be a quoted string ('-v', '-vv', '-vvv', see tcpdump(1))

.IP "-j, --job jobname"
Shorthand to create pidfile and ringfiles with corresponding names. If a file 'jobname' and suffix 'conf' is present in the program dir ($myinstalldir) this one will be used instead of the default config file. Do *not* use in conjunction with '-r' or '-p' options.

.SS "Example usage"
.IP "tcpdumpd start"
Start the configured tcpdumpd until stopped by 'tcpdumpd stop'.

.IP "tcpdumpd start -p my.pid -r newdmp- -f 'not host my.net'"
Use standard config for a new tcpdumpd logging to filering 'newdmp-*' and do not log packets to and from host.net. Process information is in my.pid. 

.IP "tcpdumpd start -j mynewjob -s 50"
Will create a filering of 'mynewjob*' and a pidfile 'mynewjob.pid', using default values from config. Each file in the ring will have a size of fifty million bytes. If 'mynewjob.conf' is present in '$myinstalldir' it will be evaluated.

.IP "tcpdumpd stop mynewjob"
Stop the process from 'mynewjob' and/or delete it. Usefull if tcpdumpd terminated irregulary and does not restart the job.

.SH SEE ALSO
tcpdump(1), pgrep(1), update-rc.d(1), tshark(1),  pcap-savefile(5), strftime(3)

.SH BUGS
Insufficient support for tcpdump's time switches. Long options not supported yet.

.SH FILES
.IP starttcpdump.conf
Basic configuration file.
.IP "tcpdumpd-setup.sh"
Installation and setup script. 
.IP "starttcpdump.sh"
Main shell script and wrapper for tcpdump(1).
.IP "tcpdumpd"
Main script file for controlling tcpdumpd. 
.IP tcpdumpd.log
Logfile for start / stop and some diagnostic output.

.SH DEFAULT PATHES
.IP /usr/local/tcpdumpd/
Program, config and setup files.
.IP /var/log/tcpdumpd/
Place for the default ring, log and pid files

.SH HISTORY
.IP "Version 0.2, May 2013"
Initial release.
.IP "Version 0.1, Jan 2010"
Started as system utility for multi instanced tcpdump, doing long time inspection of certain network packets. 

.SH AUTHOR
Christian Koch (emcekah@gmail.com)

.SH COPYRIGHT
GPL 3
